---
layout: post
title:  Getting Started Builder
category: builder
---

# Getting Started Builder

The simplest way to use a visualization created in CARTO on an external site is as follows.

```javascript
var s = "JavaScript syntax highlighting";
alert(s);
```

[Grab the complete example source code]: http://www.google.com

## Using the CARTO.js LibraryPermalink

CARTO.js can be used to embed a visualization you have designed using CARTO’s user interface, or to dynamically create visualizations from scratch, using your data. If you want to create new maps on your webpage, jump to Creating a visualization from scratch. If you already have maps on your webpage and want to add CARTO visualizations to them, read Adding CARTO layers to an existing map.

You can also use the CARTO APIs to create visualizations programmatically. This can be useful when the visualizations react to user interactions. To read more about it, jump to Creating visualizations at runtime.


| Argument            | Description           |
|---------------------|-----------------------|
| map_id              | a DOM object          |
| vizjson_url         | url of the vizjson object      |
| callback(vis,layers)| if a function is specified, it is called once the visualization is created      |

### Other Mapping Libraries


We have also made it easy for you to build maps using the mapping library of your choice. Whether you are using Leaflet or something else, our CARTO.js code remains the same. This makes our API documentation simple and straightforward. It also makes it easy for you to consistently develop, or maintain, multiple maps online.

> CARTO.js automatically includes dependencies from other mapping libraries (such as Leaflet, jQuery, Mustache, Underscore, and so on). You do not have to manually include these libraries, or worry about other mapping library version control, when you are using CARTO.js. If you need to see which version of other mapping libraries are included, view the vendor folder for each CARTO.js release.

